It's time to celebrate because you just finished your first data structure and they're going to get
more and more fun.
But you see here that we've started to complete our mental model of data structures.
I promise to you that by the end of this course this whole diagram is going to make sense.
And we've finished a small part of it.
The arrays we talked about static and dynamic arrays.
We talked about the big go complexity and how dynamic arrays can sometimes have.
Oh then Pence because well sometimes we have to double up or expand our memory.
We also talked about how strings and questions regarding strings can be treated very similar to array
questions where you just convert them to an array and then join them back up and return a String answer
they need and there's a few other points for arrays that we're going to talk about when we get into
algorithms.
But by now you should take a look at the Big O Cheat Sheet and understand why the array data structure
has these big numbers and understand when our new Array is a good thing to use.
One thing that you'll note when it comes to race especially when we get to algorithms is that they're
really really good at having sort of data when it comes to sorting arrays are awesome because they're
in memory in sequential order according to their index now.
Before I go onto the slide you can pause the video.
Think about when you would want to use an array when you wouldn't.
Because in about five seconds I'm going to show you the pros and cons so positive video and the answer
to when you should use an array Well here it is.
Arrays are great for fast lookups.
That is just accessing information where you know which index you want to look up.
It's really fast that push and pop.
So adding things at the end of an array or taking things out at the end of the array and of course because
it's ordered having something that is ordered and close to each other in memory makes it really fast
however it has slow inserts and deletes because we have to shift arrays whenever it's not at the very
end of the array.
And then finally if using static arrays it's fixed twice that means sometimes you have to declare the
memory ahead of time and how large of an array you want but that can be avoided if we use some of the
more modern languages that have dynamic arrays.
Also I just realized that this smiley face kind of looks like a crazy person.
But this is meant to be good.
This is good.
This scary little icon that's bad OK.
I think we get it now we're going to come back to raise because a lot of other data structures we're
going to talk about later on like Qs and stacks are related to race.
But for now I want to get into other data structures because we still have a few to go through.
I'll see you in the next one.